=============================================================================
                         QUAKE MISSION PACK NO. 2

	                 DISSOLUTION OF ETERNITY
=============================================================================

                             CAPTURE THE FLAG


Capture the Flag (CTF) offers an exciting variation on team play.  It gives 
meaning to base defense along with offensive positioning and strikes.

The basic premise is:  attack the enemy base, grab their flag, and take it 
back to your base.  

Mission Pack No. 2 offers three variations to CTF:  normal, one flag, and 
three team.  This document gives a general overview to each type of play.  


PLEASE NOTE:  It is possible to select multiplayer combinations in the 
Mission Pack No. 2 front-end, such as Co-operative Tag, that cannot be 
played.  Although an interesting "unsupported feature," it can be confusing 
to be in Tag mode with Co-operative play options and monsters.  If you find 
yourself in a CTF game with monsters, you should restart the level with 
teamplay set to "no teamplay."


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               CTF:  Normal
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Two areas of the map are designated as base encampments.

2. When you join the game, you are assigned to a team.  Depending on the 
   configuration of the server, you may change teams; if you are allowed to 
   change, you will lose your frag count when changing.  You are spawned at 
   your team's base.  If you die, you are not spawned at the base, but at one 
   of the deathmatch start spots.  This way, you don't kill a guy defending 
   his flag at the enemy base and he comes back to life immediately in the 
   same spot.

3. The flags are based on the medieval key models.  If you pick up the enemy 
   flag, you must return to base and touch your flag in order to score.  
   Note that if you get back to the base, your flag might not be there if 
   the other team has it!  Get the rest of your team to go frag the enemy 
   player and get your flag back!
 
4. When a player carrying the enemy flag touches his own flag, he will 
   complete a successful capture.  He gets a bonus of 15 points.  Everyone 
   else on his team gets 10 points.

5. If you kill an opposing team player who has your flag, he drops it, and 
   you also get 2 points.   If you touch your flag, it will teleport back to 
   your base.  You also get one point as a recovery bonus.  This gives base 
   defenders a reward for guarding their flag.   Defending the flag carrier 
   (your teammate) from an attack counts as an assist worth 3 points, and 
   returning it to base garners you an extra point.

6. Since everyone starts at their base after each level change (or upon 
   joining the game), the team will have to work out who is going to go 
   offensive and try to get the enemy flag, and who will play defense by 
   staying at base and guarding the flag.  Yes , this is camping, but it is 
   camping with a cause!

7. You can communicate with teammates by binding "messagemode2" to a key.



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               CTF:  One Flag
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Both the Red and the Blue teams will start in their base camps.  Neither team
will have a flag at their camp. The flag starts out in a designated "one 
flag" start spot on the map. Both teams must then try and reach the flag 
before their opponents.  Once they gain control of the flag, the object is 
not to return to your own camp, but to the OTHER team's base camp.

Scoring: All of the regular rules for CTF would apply. The points awarded for 
the flag capture, killing opposing team members, dispatching threats to your 
flag carrier, and the rest would apply.



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              CTF:  Three Team
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

There will be three teams at spawn time: the two normal Red and Blue teams, 
as well as a third Grey team. The Blue and Red teams initially spawn at their 
normal base sites; the members of the Grey team will spawn in random 
deathmatch start locations.

Scoring: The rules for teams Red and Blue stay exactly the same.  Grey team 
members can pick up either color flag and must run it to the other color’s 
base camp to score.   The rest of the scoring rules still apply to the Grey
team, but the points are halved to compensate for the ability to grab either 
flag. The other scoring works the same.  


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            The Grappling Hook
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

In CTF games, toggling the "1" key will switch your axe to an enhanced 
grappling hook created especially for Quake Mission Pack No. 2.  The 
grappling hook is an integral part of Capture the Flag and, when used 
strategically, can be a powerful aid.  To use the hook, fire as you would any 
other weapon but hold the fire key down.  The hook will launch and attach 
itself to a wall or another object.  When you hold down the fire key, the 
grappling hook will pull you along. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             One more thing...
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thanks to Dave "Zoid" Kirish for writing the CTF enhancements for us.  Many 
sections of this document were taken from his CTF page at 
http://www.threewave.com.  